#AAlign: Vectorized Sequence Alignment Tools

* Paper Name: AAlign: A SIMD Framework for Pairwise Sequence Alignment on x86-based Multi- and Many-core Processors, 30th IEEE International Parallel & Distributed Processing Symposium May 23-27, 2016 (IPDPS'16)
* Author: Kaixi Hou, Hao Wang, Wu-chun Feng @ Virginia Tech
* Contact Email: kaixihou@vt.edu

The pairwise sequence alignment tools include Smith-Waterman, Needleman-Wunsch algorithms with linear and affine gap systems. The specific values of gap systems can be adjusted in related head files. The tools are mainly generated by our AAlign framework. The corresponding paper is "AAlign: A SIMD Framework for Pairwise Sequence Alignment on x86-based Multi- and Many-core Processors". Our tools currently support Intel Xeon Phi MIC and Haswell or later CPUs.

##Single-threaded vecterized version 

In the folder of /ModularDesign.

###Usage:

In the Makefile, you can change the target platform or application.
```
$ ./${APPNAME} -q ${query_name_fasta} -d ${subject_name_fasta} 
```
The main function will call five versions of sequence alignments and compare their execution time in second with the computed score.
* seq_orig: default sequential version
* seq_scan: sequential version using scan strategy
* vec_scan: vector version using scan strategy
* vec_iter: vector version using iterate strategy
* vec_merg: vector version using hybrid strategy

##Multi-threaded vecterized version 

In the folder of /MultiModularDesign.

###Usage:

In the Makefile, you can change the target platform or application.
```
$ ./${APPNAME}.out -q ${query_name_fasta} -d ${database_name_fasta} -t ${THREAD_NUM}
```
The program will show the execution time in millisecond and corresponding GCUPS. Additionally, top 10 sequences with highest scores will be listed.

##License
Please refer to the included LICENSE file.
